Macbeth 2020
Act II & Act III
Instructions:

Today you will be watching the next two acts from the 2020 version of Macbeth that we started on Monday and responding to a few writing prompts. Before you continue watching the play, read the scene summaries below and have your version of the script open and accessible so you can follow along. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PFwHmgA9nno
(Act II begins just after the 28-minute mark and Act III ends around 1:02-mark)

But first, explain in 5-6 sentences what has happened so far in the play. If you need to go back and review your last assignment, that is totally fine. In fact, I encourage you to do so!

Synopsis of Act 1:
Macbeth is a general in Scotland who is visited by 3 witches, who prophesied that he will become king. He tells his wife, who by manages to convince him to speed up the prophecy 
By murdering the king. He does so, and becomes king when the princes flee Scotland, thinking that they will be charged with the crime. By then he remembers that his friend also received a prophecy, one that says that his children will become kings after Macbeth. He orders the murder of his friend and his son, and after this begins to descend into madness.





Act II
Scene 1
As Macbeth makes his way toward the king's bedchamber, he encounters Banquo with his son Fleance. Banquo has been unable to sleep and explains to Macbeth that he has been dreaming of the weird sisters. After arranging to meet again in order to discuss the matter, Banquo asserts his allegiance to the king and bids good night to Macbeth. No sooner is Macbeth alone, than he has an extraordinary experience. Either in the heat of the moment or through some supernatural visitation, he sees a ghostly dagger indicating the way to Duncan. Convinced that "there's no such thing," he climbs to the king's chamber.

Scene 2
Having drugged the guards of Duncan's chamber, Lady Macbeth now meets her husband in the lower courtyard as he emerges from the king's room itself. Macbeth's conscience is clearly disturbed by what he has done, and once more his wife criticizes his lack of firmness. The success of their plot is also in jeopardy because Macbeth has brought the daggers with him. Lady Macbeth returns to the scene of the murder in order to place the daggers and to smear the king's sleeping servants with blood, a deed that presents her with none of the horror that now affects Macbeth. As the scene closes, we hear, with the Macbeths, a loud and persistent knocking at the door.

Scene 3
The knocking continues, but the porter does not immediately open the door. Instead, he plays a game with himself in which he imagines himself as the porter of hell and jokes about the kind of sinners he might let in. Eventually, however, he opens the door to Lennox and Macduff, who have been commanded to call upon the king to arrange the royal departure. It is early morning, and most of those in the castle are still asleep. One who is not is Macbeth, and he directs Macduff to the king's chamber. Only a moment passes before the news breaks: King Duncan has been murdered.
On hearing the terrible revelation, the Macbeths' acts are beyond suspicion, but Macbeth admits to having killed the guards of the King's chamber — not part of the original plan — and Lady Macbeth faints. The assembled thanes of Scotland resolve to avenge the act of treason. Duncan's sons, Malcolm and Donalbain, thinking themselves open to the charge of murdering their father, plan to flee to England and Ireland.
Scene 4
On his way from the castle, the Thane of Ross encounters an Old Man, who confirms the widespread reports of disruption in the natural world. Macduff appears with fresh news that Duncan is buried, that his sons have fled, and that the kingship has passed to Macbeth. The opening prophecies of the Witches have been completed.

Act III
Scene 1
Banquo suspects Macbeth but gains comfort from the second part of the Witches' prediction — that his own children will be kings. Having announced his intention to go riding with Fleance, Banquo is persuaded by the Macbeths to return later that evening to their new palace at Forres for a special feast. However, Macbeth realizes that the Witches' prophecy regarding Banquo represents a threat to his own position. Unable to endure the thought of Banquo's descendants claiming his position, Macbeth summons two hired murderers and confirms with them prior arrangements for the killing of Banquo and Fleance.

Scene 2
This short scene allows the audience once more into the private thoughts of the murderous couple, while holding the action momentarily in suspense. As the hired killers make their way toward Banquo, Macbeth and his wife meet secretly. His wife attempts to soothe his troubled mind but ironically feels the same doubts herself. Killing the king has provided them with many more difficulties than they first envisioned. To the astonishment of his wife, Macbeth reveals his plan to murder Banquo.

Scene 3
The hired murderers meet as arranged. On hearing approaching horses, a signal is given, and Banquo and his son Fleance are attacked. The murderers' lantern is accidentally extinguished, and the job is left half-done: Although Banquo is killed, Fleance escapes.

Scene 4
At Forres, Macbeth and his wife welcome the thanes of Scotland to the banquet. Immediately prior to the feast, one of the murderers appears at a side door and reveals to Macbeth the truth about the mission: their success in the killing of Banquo and their failure to murder Fleance. Macbeth recomposes himself and returns to the table. As he raises a toast to his absent friend, he imagines he sees the ghost of Banquo. As with the ethereal dagger, the ghost of Banquo appears to come and go, propelling Macbeth into alternating fits of courage and despair. Lady Macbeth invites the thanes to depart and, once alone, tries one last time to soothe her husband. But Macbeth's paranoid mind is already on to the next murder, that of Macduff. To ascertain his future with greater certainty, he makes clear his intention to visit the Weird Sisters once more.

Scene 5
Hecate, the classical goddess of the lower world who represents the spirit of ancient witchcraft, calls the weird sisters to her to complain that her own part in Macbeth's downfall has been overlooked and that she now wishes personally to make his downfall complete. The scene is unnecessary to understanding the play and was probably not written by Shakespeare.

Scene 6
Meeting with a rebel lord, Lennox reveals his doubts concerning Macbeth. His argument is that those who might be immediately suspected of murdering their kinsmen are less likely to have done so than Macbeth, who had killed the guards of Duncan's chamber so hastily. Although Lennox is prepared to accept Macbeth's actions, he cannot help feeling deeply suspicious of him. The other lord reveals to Lennox that Macduff has fled from Scotland to join forces with Malcolm in England. Moreover, they have requested help from England's King Edward the Confessor. Both Lennox and the other lord pray that God's vengeance may swiftly fall on the tyrannical Macbeth and that Scotland may return to peace once more.



QUESTIONS!
Make sure you are explaining your answers!
Have you ever felt guilty about something that you’ve done? Can you relate to Macbeth’s mental and emotional state in Act II? Explain.
I don’t think that I have ever felt as guilty as Macbeth, and I can’t really relate to his situation. Of course, I have felt guilty before, like when I'm supposed to be working and I scroll through YouTube or Reddit, but this is nothing compared to the guilt Macbeth feels.



What was the most unbelievable, shocking, or unexpected part of what you saw/read? Explain your reaction.
The most surprising thing was Macbeth murdering the servants. I was surprised because I thought he was smart enough to know suspicion would fall on him after he did that. I reacted by thinking, “really, he did that?”


Macbeth mentions having a “false face to mask what the false heart doth know.” What does he mean by this? Have you ever put on a “false face” to hide your true feelings? Explain.
He means that he is hiding his true suspicious feelings by putting on a happy or amiable face. I don’t think I have ever done something like this, because of the fact that I'm terrible at lying.
      



Lady Macbeth is a legendary character in the world of theatre. What do you think about her up to this point? Do you like her? Dislike her? Explain your answer?
I don’t like her because she convinced her husband to kill Duncan, which eventually brought the downfall of both her and Macbeth. She also acted like killing their king because a random witch told her to is justified, and I don’t agree.




We have spoken many times this year about stories and their underlying themes. What is one theme you have noticed in Macbeth so far? Explain.

A theme I have noticed in Macbeth is “the quickest path is not always the right one.” This makes sense for Macbeth because if he had waited the prophecy might have come true by itself, and he wouldn’t have had to commit murders to stay in power. Instead, he rushed the prophecy, which led to the death of his king, one of his best friends, and ultimately himself.





